# Modeling of mutated structures

# Stability descriptors: Normal Mode Analysis (NMA)

For the following analysis you will need to run the scripts provided in a Linux OS. You need also to have installed python, R, and FORTRAN

## I.	Normal mode analysis

File: anm

Input: A PDB file with just information about the protein atoms coordinates and an END line as the final line.

1.	Add the file “anm” to the PATH environmental variable in order to execute it from any directory. Otherwise, you could make it executable in your current working directory and type “./anm” in the command line.
2.	Enter file name: *.pdb
3.	Enter the number of the first residue: 1
4.	Enter the cutoff: 5
 
	Outputs: 
-	HESSIAN_modif.txt
-	eigenvectors_modif.TXT
-	flucxyz_modif.txt
-	eigenvalues_modif.txt
-	centers_modif.txt
-	beta_modif.txt

## II.	Format preparation for fluctuations calculation

File: script.sh 

Just run in the command line “bash script.sh”

Outputs:
-	eigenvalue.txt
-	eigenvector.txt
Note: All the outputs generated by the previous file will be deleted.

## III.	Fluctuations calculation

File: fluctuation

Inputs: Text files with information of eigenvalues and eigenvector from normal mode analysis. Example archives: eigenvalue.txt, eigenvector.txt.

1.	Add the file “fluctuation” to the PATH environmental variable in order to execute it from any directory. Otherwise, you could make it executable in your current working directory and type “./fluctuation” in the command line.
2.	Enter number of frequencies and number of residues: 40 185
3.	Enter name of freq file: eigenvalue.txt
4.	Enter name of vector file: eigenvector.txt 
5.	Enter name of output file: ».txt
 
	Outputs: 
-	*.txt (you can specify the name, as shown above).

## IV.	Commentaries about the code

**The programs "anm" and "fluctuations" belong to the group of Dr. L. Mario Amzel**. The first one performs the normal mode analysis per se, and the second one calculates the fluctuations per residue using as inputs the eigenvalues and eigenvectors calculated from the normal mode analysis. Nevertheless, in order to generate the inputs for the program “fluctuation”, a bash script called “script.sh” takes the files “eigenvectors_modif.TXT” and “eigenvalues_modif.txt” produced by the program “anm”, and gives them the needed format to be the inputs for the “fluctuation” program. The script “script.sh” also calls the scripts “FORMAT.R” and “editing.py” for its purpose.

# Stability descriptors: Molecular Dynamics (MD)

All script for MD simulations are provided. 

 -	ions.mdp
  
 	Used as input into grompp to generate ions.tpr.
 
 - 	minim.mdp
 
 	Used as input into grompp to generate em.tpr and run energy minimization.
 
 -	nvt.mdp
 	
	nvt ensemble to equilibrate temperature (310.15 K). 	
 
 -	npt.mdp
 
 	npt ensemble to equilibrate pressure (1 bar).
	 
 -	md.mdp
 
 	Run production MD for data collection at temperature and pressure constant.
 
 -	run.sh
 	
	Run all the procedures to perfom MD.
 
 All input and output files are available on Google Drive:
 
 https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1MSriTiqPQCyTM1S25DEQw7XRXR_1Huj9?usp=sharing
 
# Physicochemical descriptors

# Geometrical descriptors

Geometrical desriptors are distances between points the following points of interest including:

1. Alpha carbon coordinates for each residue.
2. Baricenter of the active site (AS - D8, K96, C138) and the metal coordination site (MCS - D49, H51, H71).
3. Point P: Point of projection of each alpha carbon on the plane formed by the AS (D8, K96, C138) or MCS (D49, H51, H71).
4. Point I: Point of intersection between the resulting vector of each alpha carbon and the plane formed by the AS (D8, K96, C138) or MCS (D49, H51, H71).
5. Point T: Baricenter of the metal coordination site (D49, H51, H57, H71).

## I.	Distances calculation

File: geometrical_analysis.R

Input: A character vector containing the name (or the path) of all the PDBs to analyze.
 
Outputs: 
-	HESSIAN_modif.txt
-	eigenvectors_modif.TXT
-	flucxyz_modif.txt
-	eigenvalues_modif.txt
-	centers_modif.txt
-	beta_modif.txt

